:Title: Kiroku readme
:Datetime: 2013-09-08 10:57:24
:Modified:
:Tags: blog

What is Kiroku?
---------------

Kiroku (喜六, in the meaning of putting something into the record; writing
something) is a simple tool which helps out to generate a full blown static
site out of the reST articles.

.. more

Requirements
------------

Since I tried to minimize usage of 3rd party libraries, only few dependencies
are actually required:

- python >= 3.2
- docutils >= 0.10

and basically that's it. Optional dependencies are:

- pygments >= 1.6 (for code blocks highlighting)
- pytz >= 2013b (for proper conversion to RFC 3339 datetime format, if you care)

Installation
------------

#. Install globally
   TBD
#. Install locally
   TBD
#. Virtualenv is one option
   TBD
#. Also, an obscure way is always possible

   .. code:: shell-session

      gryf@mslug ~ $ PYTHONPATH=[path/to/the/kiroku/directory] python3 \
      [path/to/the/kiroku/directory] kiroku.py init my_site

   TBD

This optional comment above is just for artificially separating summary (or
first paragraph) form the rest of the article.

Fields at the top of the document, are as follows:

- ``:Title:`` - mandatory field with the title of the article
- ``:Datetime:`` - creation date in format described below. Leave empty to be
  filled automatically
- ``:Modified:`` - modification date in format described below. Leave empty or
  to be filled automatically.
- ``:Tags:`` - comma separated labels for the article


Date formats are actually local date time in following format:

.. code::

    2000-01-24 17:33:31

Config file
-----------

Date formats are actually date time with timezone format described (as a
subset) in `RFC 3339`_, for example:

Those fields doesn't have to be in order, but have to be at the top of the
article.

.. code::

    2000-01-24T17:33:31.377+02:00

Which covers date, time with milliseconds and timezone exactly in that format,
or simple local data may be used:

.. _RFC 3339: https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3339.txt
